>> Steve Kinney: So let's look at one more
example here that I think will hopefully,
again, this is like tricky stuff.
>> Steve Kinney: There's a few kind of
interesting pieces in this logjam 1.
So let's pull it open.
So we have this interesting log function.
It's supposed to be one that doesn't
get you in trouble in production,
which means in development,
it's a console log,
and in production,
it will send it to your log server, right?
That way you don't, who has left
a console log in their code base and
merged it into main?
Everyone has, we've all done it.
And so this one at least will send
it to your, it's a fake function.
But the thing is problematic.
This is what I was talking about before.
This function is problematic for
a number of reasons.
And we're gonna show how to solve
the problem with a mock, and
then we're gonna show how maybe you
just don't need to do that, right?
Okay, so problems here is,
guess what mode?
This is like the same thing as,
>> Steve Kinney: Same
basic idea this is either development,
test, or production.
But guess what this is, guess what?
This is in your test.
It's test, all right, so
how do you test code that only behaves
a certain way in production or
development if you're in test.
[LAUGH] and then also this again,
we didn't pass this function in.
When you require this file,
it's also gonna import this function.
Good luck, right?
And so if you wanted to test
how it behaves in production.
Well, you're gonna send
stuff to the server, right?
Because by calling this,
you require this log.js.
It requires send to server tough, right?
And so you're like,
I just won't test that code, okay?.
That's a life choice, I guess or
we can figure out how to get around it.
Okay, so we've got a few options here.
And let's take a look
at both of those cases.
All right, so let's talk about
the environment variable thing first.
Cuz this one is pretty easy.
You got two choices one a little bit
more glamorous than the other one.
So what we can do is we can say like,
describe,
and you can nest these if you want.
You can say something like.
You describe development,
and what that does?
It just makes a little outline
of your tests prettier.
That's all, it just indents it.
That's it, I wouldn't get too carried
away, but you can do it occasionally.
And so in development,
we'd like to see if,
Console log is called, right?
We did earlier, but
we need to say let's say before each.
>> Steve Kinney: You could literally
just take the process and or
whatever object and replace the value and
put it back when you're done.
Or you can do this,
>> Steve Kinney: Stub
the environment in this case mode.
That means just for these tests,
the MODE that we're in is gonna be
development instead of test, right?
And after each put everything back,
everything you
mess with in the world after each test,
put everything back, right?
We were being a little lazy before
we didn't do that, but we should.
So now, we'll stub the environment.
And now we wanna say,
>> Steve Kinney: It
logs to the console In development mode.
>> Steve Kinney: Right and so
in this case we'll say like that
logs by the way made earlier.
Let's give it another shot.
>> Steve Kinney: The property
name there and,
>> Steve Kinney: So in development,
we can expect that our spy
>> Steve Kinney: On
console log was called.
>> Steve Kinney: Except if you name
the variable two different things,
it doesn't work.
Okay, and
we can do something similar, right?
We could do something for
production where we
say,
>> Steve Kinney: Go ahead and
I'm going to steal this real quick.
>> Steve Kinney: Where now we're gonna
say that the mode is production.
Yeah, I'm gonna write a test relax.
It should not call console log,
and if Production.
>> Steve Kinney: And
all we'll do here is grab this code,
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll say honestly
just not open even called
it all I don't recall
what you were called with, all right?
And what are you angry about?
Got a little carried with my copy and
pasting there.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, so, now we have
the same thing because we're spying on it.
We have two different environments, right?
Where we say in development, we should
have called Cons log in production it
should have never called Cons log, and
we now know that both are true right?
That's not the hard part.
What are we gonna do, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Can you define Stub real
quick?
>> Steve Kinney: No [LAUGH] replace it
with another value that's not real and
put it back later.
Yeah, thank you, if there's somebody who's
really into testing they're not gonna
accept that answer.
But that's the right answer.
But I will get added on Twitter later for
that or I'm sorry X formerly Twitter.
For that definition, but
that is the more reasonable answer than
anyone else will give you, which is for
a hot minute, regardless of what
reality is, can this be the answer?
Yeah, and
then we put back the real answer later.
Yeah the fact that and
how is that different from a mock,
I don't know, like a mock is a function,
stub is a value who cares?
It's a fake value that we put in there for
a second and
then we put the real stuff back later,
right?
Is the overall version here?
So we, So for a minute,
the environment was always test, or
the mode was always test.
We lied for a hot minute,
said it was development,
put it back afterwards, all right?
Then in another set of tests, we lied for
a minute, said it was production, and
then put it back afterwards, right?
And this case we're spying on console log.
And this is for everything people
complain about mocking and spying.
This is fine cause we
didn't change any behavior.
We just set the modes of development
of production for a minute and
saw if a function got called,
nobody got hurt in the making of this.
Now, let's hurt some people.
What are we gonna do about this?
This thing just pulls in, send a server.
No matter what, right?
And tough.
Now, the answer is dependency injection.
Well, let's make believe you can't
do that for a minute, right?
Right, so
actually this test in production,
send a server doesn't do anything.
It just returns a string,
but it would theoretically,
be calling some fictitious
server that would fail, right?
And that's not great.
But because of the way that we wrote
our code, not because testing is hard,
because this code is hard to test,
we have to do terrible things, right?
This thing, log,
just pulls in this dependency.
Nothing we can do about it.
>> Steve Kinney: We're gonna do something
about it, but if it makes you feel bad and
it hurts your feelings,
that is the right feeling.
So there is two more we'll get
to the other one in a second
cuz it's just a brief moment.
One more kind of way that mocking
manifests itself in here as well,
which is you can do this terrible thing.
>> Steve Kinney: This,
>> Steve Kinney: Now, when any of this,
like the test file gets loaded first,
this will actually,
even if you write it here,
effectively, it'll be up here.
What this will do is, Vitest or Jest,
whichever one makes you happier,
it's gonna get to this test file.
It's going to take all these it's
gonna move them all to the top.
And then it's going to say,
if anyone tries to import that file,
let's replace it with a fake one,
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and now,
instead of requesting that file, if you
give it nothing, it's just gonna automock,
which is just put in dummy
values that don't do anything.
So this alone will stop this thing
from calling out to the server, right?
Let's verify that, which is.
Let's say that no matter what,
this should throw.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, weird.
This thing should blow up no matter what.
And it doesn't.
You know why?
Cuz it never gets imported.
All this does, if you have something
that's pulling in some other like Axios or
whatever, right?
This will basically say, no, no, no, no,
no, you're not gonna require this one.
I'm gonna give you a bunch of fake stuff.
It's fine.
And basically this is where
we get into trouble, right?
Cuz I'm gonna do this all the time now.
I'm gonna knock out everything.
All right,
you've now made a mostly worthless.
This works in a pinch, right?
And you can even give
it a second argument,
which is,
>> Steve Kinney: So,
if I look at send a server, it exports
one property it's not a default export.
So it's the send to server.
So now what we can do here is,
>> Steve Kinney: So
now we have not only mocked it out,
we have replaced it with this BS version.
The only nice thing we can do now is we
can expect that logs I was not called.
>> Steve Kinney: Op,
what's she angry about?
>> Steve Kinney: This is
gotta be a function, sorry.
>> Steve Kinney: Nope.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Steve Kinney: We
gotta pull in from that file.
>> Steve Kinney: So, here we are saying,
anytime anyone asks you for
send-to-server, don't give them the real
file, give them this fake version, right?
And then we too ask for
the fake version, right?
And our other code that we don't control
called it, and we hope for the best.
That face is the right reaction because
you know what you could just do?
You could just have this log function
takes some additional parameters,
including a function you would like
it to call in production, right?
You could have a default to all those
values, and you can just pass in stuff and
be like, hey, yeah, by default,
call the sender server.
But call whatever I passed in,
you could do something like this.
Log, message, and let's say mode.
>> Steve Kinney: And,
>> Steve Kinney: And now you can just say
hey, if mode is equal to production,
not equal to production, otherwise.
>> Steve Kinney: And now this
function is not only easier to test,
because you can pass in the mode,
you can pass in the production callback.
It also means that, let's say you want
it for to go to your error reporting
in production, but you actually also
want this to do something else,
maybe, in test, or in staging, right?
Now, you can, even as you use this
function, you can pass in all of this
stuff too, and you have a more
flexible function in general, right?
And so now, guess what you get to delete?
I don't know, all of this, right?
Honestly, you get to delete all of this.
You get to this can just
become a function that you
pass in to make sure it got called
with the things you wanted to and
you're not simulating reality or
mocking out the world.
Cuz if you are,
let's say you wanna mock out axios,
you gotta mock out all the axios, right?
There's a way to import the actual one and
then only mock out wanted,
you're going to mess it up, right?
Versus, if you get to the point where
you can pass in the code you want,
right, you get something that's more
flexible into day to day use because you
can pass in different use cases, right?
And also, you get something easier to
test, because now it's just JavaScript and
not this crazy mocking and
spying stuff that you're doing
all over the place, right?
Again, these tools are available.
If you need them,
they are there, use them, right?
But outside of random numbers and
a few other things and dates,
which we'll talk about in a second,
just make your life easier and
pass in what a thing needs instead
of if it's pulling the stuff in
internal to that file,
you have no control, right?
And that's when testing gets hard, right?
Testing should be as easy with add,
we passed in two and two, right?
We passed in everything that function
needed to get his job done, right?
And that should be true for everything we
write because then we can just pass in,
the cool thing about those mock functions,
which are just this version is
that's just a harmless function.
I mean, this could have an implementation
here that does whatever you want.
But you pass it in as a little
scientific probe, right, and
then ask about what it saw when
it was inside the function.
That's totally easy to reason about.
Things get crazy cuz we're all kind of a
little stressed out about one dependency.
[LAUGH] How many files have
one dependency, right?
Doesn't happen all that often, right?
And so with these patterns we can just
kind of passed off and this will work for
a React component as well it'll work for
a regular Javascript class as well
it'll work for a function, right?
The one pattern that you might see
a little bit more often is you can imagine
that this thing could eventually
take 13 different arguments, right?
So what you'll eventually see is
something like this, where it's like,
you'll have the core thing and then,
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
and you'll have one object.
This is a little bit easier to get away
with in TypeScript too, because you can
say exactly what they are, and you get the
autocomplete and all that kind of stuff.
But here we could do
production callback.
I hate the name of that function, but I'll
just put a fake function in here for now.
>> Steve Kinney: So now the second
argument is by default an empty object,
right?
If any of those values are missing,
here are the defaults.
So now you can basically passing
just the things you need and
stuff along those lines.
So that would end up being,
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and so
I probably got some other tests in here to
work through in a second, but generally
speaking you have these options, you can
pass in what you need, so on and so forth.
Again, works for React components,
works for functions, works for classes.
Also it's just nice cuz it makes
your things totally reusable, right?